### NMA_2023: Computational Neuroscience

A collection of the python assessment projects done during my 3-week workshop at the NeuroMatch Academy in July, 2023. 

The workshop began with an introduction on how to choose your models based on the **how**, **why**, and **what** model schemas in research (Dayan and Abbott, 2001).
We next learnt how to assess what _model types_ to use based on the experimental data and what model would be best fit to capture most of the data. We then learn about the generic concepts and techniques to fit and compare different types of models and also the crucial steps that help test the hypothesis about how behaviour or neural activity is formed. We also covered linear regression models, the typical regression model when the dependent variable is continuous (e.g., BOLD activity), and used it throughout the day to illustrate the concepts and methods we learn. On the GLM day, we saw how to generalize regression models when the dependent variable is binary (e.g., choices) or an integer (e.g., spike counts). In summary the second module, _Machine Learning_,covers fitting models to data and using them to ask and answer questions in neuroscience. We can pose all sorts of questions (including what, how, and why questions) using machine learning — we focus especially on more data-driven analyses that often result in asking what is happening in the brain

We then are treated to a module about _Dynamical Systems_ starting with an intro to linear dynamical systems, markov processes, autoregressive models, and also a brief dive into stochastic systems. We then use this knowledge to build models of individual neurons that are more rooted in biology in the biological neuron models section including the LIF Neuron model, synaptic transmisssion (model of static and dynamic synapses), and more. 

The final module was on _Stochastic Proceses_ introduces Bayesian inference, within the context of making decisions (Bayesian Decisions), specifically, we are learning about how to estimate a state of the world from measurements. In the next day, we extend this to include time: the state of the world is now changing over time (Hidden Dynamics). Next, we look at how we can take actions to affect the state of the world (Optimal Control and Reinforcement Learning). Once again, these models can be used as ‘what’, ‘how’, or ‘why’ models but we focus on asking ‘why’ questions (why should the brain compute this?). Finally, we end with learning all about causality (Network Causality). This covers one of the most important science questions: when can we determine if something is causally related vs. just correlated?
